---
title: Summary of student feedback for INF-1400 spring 2020
permalink: panel_reports/inf-1400-2020/
---

This text summarizes the feedback received from the student panel during spring 2020 for the course INF-1400. I've tried to structure and flesh out my notes so that it's perhaps useful outside of the lecturers in that course.


Assignments
================

Some optional tasks after lectures, and particularly before the first mandatory assignment, have been requested. This is to test the understanding gained in the lectures, as well as to have something to work on before the first mandatory assignment.

It's nice to have the option of using different languages/assignments (even if it is not used, it gives a good impression that the option is there). This is in reference to the option of "creating your own assignment" for the mandatory assignments, where students can propose an alternate assignment for themselves.

For the breakout mandatory assignment, setting a minimum requirement of exit vectors would be helpful for understanding the requirement. There was some confusion if a solution that only relied on reversing the x or y direction based on which side of the paddle it hit was enough.

For the precode for the first assignment, it's a bit difficult to deduce what the collision method returns.

There's a lack of code review during the assignments, it's perhaps a good idea to incorporate some peer review in the assignments. This would perhaps reduce the proliferation of incorrect impressions of some students of their own skill level.

We need to clarify that any overlap needs to be solved by the students, and that the assignments are not meant to take the full 3-4 weeks. We should also clarify the expected amount of hours the students should spend on the assignments.

Form of lectures
================

The students appreciate using the blackboard for figures, to introduce variation in the lecture. This approach should also be used to e.g. sketch out designs of examples where live coding is done, as these can be difficult to follow.


Another high point of the lecture form is the "loose" structure. This encompasses demonstrating things interactively (e.g. writing code live, adjusting as we go), as well as responding and adjusting to student feedback.

However, when doing live coding, it can be difficult to remember what the concept being demonstrated is, and it can be overwhelming when we change between code and lecture notes quickly. One proposed solution is to display the lecture notes on a seperate projector as we are coding.

It should be clearly communicated which chapter(s) the lecture covers, before the lecture. We only had short keywords in the lecture plan, but this wasn't sufficient to clearly communicate that this was referring to the chapter in the book.

On a practical note, I have a tendency to be a bit mumbly, particularly toward the end of sentences. I should endevour to maintain a consistent volume throughout.



Recordings of lectures
================

In the recordings, the code can be harder to read than in the lecture hall, so a larger font size than is requested by the attendees should be chosen. This may also be due to technical issues with the different viewing modes on the recorded lectures. This problem was not reported after the switch to digital lectures.

In addition the code, the blackboard can sometimes be close to unreadable in the recordings. A pre-lecture check of the legibility of text on the blackboard should be done. Early on the pre-lecture check indicated that changes to the contents on the projector would throw off the white balance in the recording, but this appeared to have been fixed sometime during the semester.

Practically, it's important to repeat questions from the audience, so that the question is heard clearly in the recording. In addition, it is helpful to pause the recording during the break.

Annotations of the lectures was requested by the panel, and as it appears the recording and editing software is working better, this may be a thought for next semester. We did not explore this further during this semester.

It can be difficult to follow the "red thread" during a lecture from time to time. One idea to alleviate this is to start and end the lecture with the learning goals for that lecture, and perhaps look back to this after going into e.g. a "deep dive".

Content of lectures
====================

The initial thoughts of the panel were that the course seemed to focus a lot on syntax and python-specific things, and less on object-oriented principles. More clarification on this during the early lectures would perhaps clarify the approach taken for this course.

During the first week, the TAs had colloquiums dedicated to help setting up, but it was not clear to the students that this also included an introduction to python. This should be clarified next time.

The panel appreciates the "deep dives" we sometimes do with some topics, where we look beyond the practical end results, and investigate the underlying implementation (conceptually). This could be expanded upon by e.g. discussing the reasoning behind library choices.

Group discussion/work is appriciated during the lecture, but could be challenging for the ones streaming the lecture. Using Discord worked quite well after the transition to online lectures, but did not see much use during regular lectures.

Examples that take the form of "This is what it looks like without OO", and then examining how to improve it, would perhaps be appreciated. We did have a small attempt at this, but the response from the students was tepid at best, with only a handful being able to read and understand the code handed out. It could be an idea to, instead of giving the students the code and the task, solve the problem in collaboration with the students somehow. More work is required on this.

## Specific lectures

The tools lecture covered too much, perhaps move coding style to a later lecture, and editors earlier. The OOP-5 lecture should have had an explenation for why we rushed through decorators and properties.

Yield is not simple, and could be expanded upon. The stack explenation could be helpful for those who have taken INF-1100, but might require some work to be integrated into the lecture.

In the "other languages" lecture, it's difficult for the students to be motivated for this. Perhaps a more in-depth discussion of how this related to the course as a whole would be helpful.

Things that were perhaps not covered in enough depth:
- Why bother with exceptions? Return values work just fine?
- What does seperation of concerns _really_ mean.

Awards
===================

The inclusion of different criteria for the awards was appreciated.

More time could be spent discussing why a particular entry won, specifically for the "Best code" award. Perhaps doing a code review as part of the award, provided the students are familiar with the concept, and give consent before the award.

The awards should be presented after the lecture, to avoid having the "high point" at the start.


Communication
===================

When lectures are cancelled, it would be nice to have them cancelled in the calendar, have an announcement on Canvas, and a quick word in the Discord, in addition to the semester plan.

We need to make an announcement of how students can get a GitHub account, with instructions on how to get it linked to an academic account.

Colloqiums
===================

It would be nice if these were synchronized with lectures, and had a more structured form for some of them. Perhaps having groups dedicated to more lecture style, while others more focused on working on assignments.

It's important to receive constructive criticism on the assignments. There were cases where students did not receive any pointers to areas to work on.

In the transition to online, a lot of people were lost, the activity went down significantly. This was helped by the TAs annoucing on Discord when they were available, and clarifying that they were also available for 1-to-1 discussions.

Feedback group
==================

We had 2 recruitment pushes, due to some turnover in the group. After a while the group stabilized, so it might be that multiple recruitment pushes are required.

It's important to note which lectures and lecturers the feedback is intended for. I did not note this, and it makes the review process less reliable as a consequence.

Online lectures
==================

Twitch works for the lectures. And Discord works well for discussions. The activity level and number of questions were perhaps higher than in the in-person lectures.

It's important to have the lectures live (not recordings), as this gives the students a natural "gathering point", even when not on campus.

Exam
=================

The lack of information before the exam was stressful. This was mostly due to COVID-19, and is not expected to be an issue for future exams. If such an issue arises again, we need to be more proactive about pressuring the administration to get clear information to give to the students.

The exam itself was a pass-fail. It was perceived a relatively easy. However, there were some issues.

Information about plagiarism, particularly self-plagiarism, should be more clearly stated before the exam. Some students have used code and text from their mandatory assignments.

The structure was not clear, it was difficult for the students to understand what was being tested, in comparison to previous exams.

The delivery format was not defined, which led to some confusion.

The precode was a decent example of ugly non-OO code, but some students thought the use of dictionaries in the precode was an elegant solution.

Task 4 was much larger than the size of the text indicated, we should perhaps format the text in such a way that the scope of the task roughly matches the size of the task on the page.
