# Summary of student feedback for INF-1049 fall 2020

This text summarizes the feedback received from the student panel during fall 2020 for the course INF-1049.

## Assignments

Extra optional assignments are appreciated, including links to external websites that provide extra tasks.
For the first mandatory assignment, it was difficult to determine if the solution was correct. It also only took about an hour to complete, but it was quite difficult.
The assignments were requested in norwegian multiple times, but we were not able to find resources for translating the assignments.
At the start of the course, students were not sure if everything needed to be correct to get a passing grade on the assignment.
The students have an experience of the assignments where they get completely stuck, but then find a solution to move past it. This repeats many times for each assignment, and it may be helpful to prepare the students for this.
Syntax is a large challenge during the first assignments, adapting the syntax from lectures to "real" situation is difficult.
The scope of the 2nd assignment (1.2) was too large, with time spent over 16 hours for some. This is a large jump from the first assignment. This was not helped by some of the turns of phrase and grammar were difficult and/or inconsistent.
Having a less demanding assignment when the format changes from Notebooks to source files is appreciated.
Some confusing remains in the description of the assignment for assignment 1.3 were fixed for 2.1, including deadline time, as well as the reccomended IDE.
When a lecture is cancelled, it would be better if the assignment for that day is handed out earlier, so that the time scheduled for the course can be used for the assignment.
The students appreciate the detailed feedback on the assignments they received.
The technical specifications of the hand-in for the "collection week" were unclear to start (wrt. folder structure, naming, and so on).
For the assignment where the students could choose between two tasks, some hint towards which one was easier is probably a good idea. Many students chose the difficult task without realizing.
For the last assignment, there were many formulas for one of the tasks. Rewriting this as a text task would possibly make this easier to understand.


## Form of lectures

The syntax was overwhelming for some, and not just the Python syntax. The math symbols were not familiar to all students.
For the students who are ahead, the group work can be challenging - adapting to the skill level of other students.
Moving back and forth in the slides is difficult to parse, it's better to spend more time on each slide, and only move forward.
After some lectures without breakout rooms/group work, the students requested more of this, even just to break up the lectures and get a break.

## Technical aspects of lectures

The use of Jupyter Notebook in lectures works well. When this is changed back and forth between lectures, we should make a point of the change, and explain the similarities and differences.
Breakout rooms during the lecture had some issues where some of the students were sitting together physically, and therefore interfered with eachother's discussions.
Another issue in the group work when groups were fixed, was that some groups only had one active member.
The students were split in which of Zoom and Twitch were better, but all agreed that livestreaming on MediaSite was the worst. On MediaSite, the playback sometimes stopped, and when the connection was reestablished, several minutes of lectures could be lost. In addition, it was difficult to read the blackboard and screen (when the "live presentation" was hung).
The students appreciate the lecture recordings being available quickly, this was particularly bad when the Zoom recordings needed to be edited before being uploaded.
Searchable lecture notes are appreciated.
Lecture notes should be uploaded on Canvas before the lecture.

## Content of lectures

The assignments done in the lectures were too difficult at the start.
The students are not happy when the lecturer appears to be a novice.
When we do small tasks in the lecture, these must be walked through in detail after the task, to avoid them feeling demotivating.

## Specific lectures
A seperate short video lecture on the specifics on format and form of the deliveries, particularly after the notebook hand-ins are over, was requested.
For the lectures in english, some students felt that these were extra difficult to follow. Going slower, explaining in more detail, showing examples with the mouse pointer, and avoiding switching between windows became even more important for these lectures.
For the lecture with the Kahoot, there was too little time per question.
For some lectures, the keyboard made a lot of sound, which was distracting for some students.
The repetition lectures were greatly appreciated, as well as the exam walk-through.
The OOP lectures appeared to cover the same material from both lecturers.
The students were disappointed that the guest lectures were not possible to complete.

## Communication

A seperate Discord server for the course is preferred by the students, to avoid external noise.
Some students apparently receive some mail on both private and UiT mail addresses, this may give the impression that we will use the private email.
Communication during the group work in lectures was lacking at first, as the groups were fixed. This improved after moving to smaller, floating groups (where students could join any group up to the limit of 5 participants).
Students did not contact TAs on Discord before highlighting this in the lectures.

## Colloqiums

Overall, the students were very satisfied with the colloqiums.
The description of the contents of the README file varied between colloqiums, this created some confusion.
Some feedback given in the colloqiums did not match the feedback given on Canvas on the assignment, creating some confusion and frustration.

## Student panel group
The student panel group was a positive experience.
The participants were more dedicated than average.
The participants experienced it as positive to be able to give feedback and ask questions in this manner.
The social aspect was perhaps more important than normally due to the limitations imposed by the pandemic.
Being involved in the plans before they are implemented is positive.

## Exam
The walkthroughs where we solved previous exam questions were appreciated.
The exam seemed easy, the students expected a more difficult exam.
The final exam question was appreciated as a realistic type of task, although it was specific to one field.
The type of tasks in the exam were better than previous years.
The scoring system was not clear to the students (i.e. that each task tests many more things that is explicitly stated).
It's apparently easier to write test functions for a class than the other way around.

## Other

First impressions from the course were that it is overwhelming, but exciting.
The students were positive to the concept of peer review, but I did not manage to clear the practical hurdles to implement it.
Some students only use the lecture notes, and not the book. Other students were unhappy that the book was not available in a physical copy, and used the book frequently.
